overview------------------------

this is a program designed to manage aldl datastreams from the 8192 baud series
of OBD-I GM ECMs under gnu/linux based operating systems, but specifically EE
mask LT1 ecms.

goals---------------------------

- adaptable to any ecm that adheres to the standard 8192 baud aldl protocol
- low cpu use for low power devices such as raspberry pi and netbooks
- easy configuration that's easily adapted from other formats
- portable to at least ARM and x86
- highest throughput possible but with adjustable throttling
- highest connection stability and reconnect rate possible
- transparent and stupid simple api
- very easy to make plugins thread-safe
- fast and easy automatic datalogging to csv format
- simple ncurses interface for raspberry pi based dashboard

building------------------------

dependancies:
  libftdi (optional)
  pthreads

the program is built with a statically compiled serial driver.

currently supported:

  make serio-ftdi  # uses libftdi for direct raw usb access
  make serio-dummy  # a fake lt1 ecm for debugging

contents------------------------

main.c: sets up initial structures and spawns some threads, to get things going
        facilitates loading of modules and main config data, etc.

acquire.c: an object that runs an event loop full of functions from aldl-io,
           maintaining connection state and constructing a linked list buffer
           of parsed and verified aldl data.

error.c: a global error handling object.

aldl-io.h: all public functions are exported here.  this also explicitly
           includes aldl-types.h.

aldl-types.h: defines all public data structures used in this library.

aldldata.c: provides functions for data management, including construction of
            the linked list of records, parsing and conversion of raw data, and
            thread-safe read/write of critical data.

aldlcomm.c: provides communication protocols for dealing with the ECM, including
            sending and generating requests, retrieving raw packets of data,
            and verifying them.

useful.c: generic useful functions that are used by many different objects.

loadconfig.c: a stupid but useful configuration file routine that is bound to
              the equals sign.  includes routines for parsing the main config
              files directly, but has enough of an api to be used by modules.

serio-ftdi.c: an object that allows serial communications using the libftdi
              userland driver (via libusb).  this is the reccommended and only
              currently supported interface.

serio-dummy.c: a really stupid fake serial driver for debugging, that pretends
               to be an LT1 ecm.  seriously, it's really stupid, doesn't even
               check input, just spits out data in a serialized operation scope

modules/*: various output modules which can be executed by main.c to actually
           do stuff with the data, incl. display and logging.

notes----------------------

string to identify your ftdi interface (pick one):
   d:devicenode (usually at /proc/bus/usb)
   i:vendor:product
   i:vendor:product:index
   s:vendor:product:serial

